README.tpl.md, before:

Schemio
--------------------

Schemio is a web based diagramming app that allows you to build interactive diagrams. Although originally Schemio was not designed for this, but it is also possible to use it as a prototyping app.

Features of Schemio:

- Creating interactive diagrams
- Documenting individual items in your diagrams
- Linking diagrams. You can add links to other diagrams or to external documents
- Component based diagrams: you can load diagrams dynamically inside of each other. This allows you to manage your digrams better and lets the user discover more and more while staying in original document
- Frame animation editor: t is possible to use frame based animations for any property.
- Draw free-form shapes
- Relative transformations: you can attach items to other items in your diagrams and tweak rotation, pivot point and scale
- Behavior editor: you can assign event handlers to any item (events like: init, click, mouse in, mouse out)
- Various animation functions: you can have smooth transitions like fade in or fade out, move items, render particle effect etc.
- Export entire diagram or only selected objects as SVG
- Generate static version of all of your diagrams so that you can host it anywhere, even on GitHub pages


![Scheenshot of Schemio](https://github.com/ishubin/schemio/blob/master/docs/schemio-screenshot.png?raw=true)

![Scheenshot of Schemio](https://github.com/ishubin/schemio/blob/master/docs/schemio-screenshot-2.png?raw=true)


Demo: What happens when you open a website in your browser
----------------------------------------------------------

There is a demo, built with Schemio that contains interactive diagrams that answer a popular interview question: "What happens when you open a website in your browser".

* Demo: https://ishubin.github.io/sre-knowledge-base/#/docs/what-happens-when.
* Source code: https://github.com/ishubin/sre-knowledge-base


Introduction to interactive diagrams with Schemio (Youtube video)
-------------------------------------------------

[![IMAGE ALT TEXT](http://img.youtube.com/vi/NM2RS1JhRkk/0.jpg)](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NM2RS1JhRkk "Introduction to interactive diagrams with Schemio")

Configuration of server-based version of Schemio
--------------------------------------------------

You can configure Schemio via the following environment variables

| Env var                | Default value  | Description |
| ---------------------- | -------------- | ----------- |
| `SERVER_PORT`          | `4010`         | Server listening port |
| `FS_ROOT_PATH`         | `/opt/schemio` | Path to Schemio storage on file system. This is where it will store all your diagrams and uploaded files |
| `FILE_UPLOAD_MAX_SIZE` | `10485760`     | Upload size limit for media files |
| `VIEW_ONLY_MODE`       | `false`        | If set to true - it does not allow editing, only viewing of folders and diagrams |


Running with Docker
--------------------

Dockerized version of Schemio is available here: https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/binshu/schemio

You can run it like this:

```
docker pull binshu/schemio:latest

docker run -v "$(pwd):/opt/schemio" \
    -p 4010:4010 \
    -e FS_ROOT_PATH=/opt/schemio \
    -e SERVER_PORT=4010 \
    binshu/schemio:latest
```

Don't forget to pull latest changes as Schemio is frequently updated.



License
---------

This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this file, You can obtain one at https://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/.

Commit message:

added ROUTE_PREFIX config option in the docs

README.tpl.md, after:

Schemio
--------------------

Schemio is a web based diagramming app that allows you to build interactive diagrams. Although originally Schemio was not designed for this, but it is also possible to use it as a prototyping app.

Features of Schemio:

- Creating interactive diagrams
- Documenting individual items in your diagrams
- Linking diagrams. You can add links to other diagrams or to external documents
- Component based diagrams: you can load diagrams dynamically inside of each other. This allows you to manage your digrams better and lets the user discover more and more while staying in original document
- Frame animation editor: t is possible to use frame based animations for any property.
- Draw free-form shapes
- Relative transformations: you can attach items to other items in your diagrams and tweak rotation, pivot point and scale
- Behavior editor: you can assign event handlers to any item (events like: init, click, mouse in, mouse out)
- Various animation functions: you can have smooth transitions like fade in or fade out, move items, render particle effect etc.
- Export entire diagram or only selected objects as SVG
- Generate static version of all of your diagrams so that you can host it anywhere, even on GitHub pages


![Scheenshot of Schemio](https://github.com/ishubin/schemio/blob/master/docs/schemio-screenshot.png?raw=true)

![Scheenshot of Schemio](https://github.com/ishubin/schemio/blob/master/docs/schemio-screenshot-2.png?raw=true)


Demo: What happens when you open a website in your browser
----------------------------------------------------------

There is a demo, built with Schemio that contains interactive diagrams that answer a popular interview question: "What happens when you open a website in your browser".

* Demo: https://ishubin.github.io/sre-knowledge-base/#/docs/what-happens-when.
* Source code: https://github.com/ishubin/sre-knowledge-base


Introduction to interactive diagrams with Schemio (Youtube video)
-------------------------------------------------

[![IMAGE ALT TEXT](http://img.youtube.com/vi/NM2RS1JhRkk/0.jpg)](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NM2RS1JhRkk "Introduction to interactive diagrams with Schemio")

Configuration of server-based version of Schemio
--------------------------------------------------

You can configure Schemio via the following environment variables

| Env var                | Default value  | Description |
| ---------------------- | -------------- | ----------- |
| `SERVER_PORT`          | `4010`         | Server listening port |
| `FS_ROOT_PATH`         | `/opt/schemio` | Path to Schemio storage on file system. This is where it will store all your diagrams and uploaded files |
| `FILE_UPLOAD_MAX_SIZE` | `10485760`     | Upload size limit for media files |
| `VIEW_ONLY_MODE`       | `false`        | If set to true - it does not allow editing, only viewing of folders and diagrams |
| `ROUTE_PREFIX`         | ``             | Custom route prefix for all server endpoints. Used in case you want to serve Schemio next to other web services on the same port (e.g. in a load balancer). This way you can specify custom route (e.g. `/schemio`). Make sure that it starts with `/`. |


Running with Docker
--------------------

Dockerized version of Schemio is available here: https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/binshu/schemio

You can run it like this:

```
docker pull binshu/schemio:latest

docker run -v "$(pwd):/opt/schemio" \
    -p 4010:4010 \
    -e FS_ROOT_PATH=/opt/schemio \
    -e SERVER_PORT=4010 \
    binshu/schemio:latest
```

Don't forget to pull latest changes as Schemio is frequently updated.



License
---------

This Source Code Form is subject to the terms of the Mozilla Public License, v. 2.0. If a copy of the MPL was not distributed with this file, You can obtain one at https://mozilla.org/MPL/2.0/.
